Add documentation for Custom Action (#169)
cisco/mindmeld: source/userguide/custom_action.rst

> Working with Custom Action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Working with Custom Actions
```

==========================

> MindMeld 4.3 introduces Custom Actions which allow MindMeld developers to further separate their business

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MindMeld 4.3 provides the ability for external applications to integrate custom dialogue management logic with MindMeld applications.
```

Author: This line actually wraps to the next line.

Reviewer: Sorry I dont understand. Why can't we incorp these changes?

Author: The rendered line will be: "MindMeld 4.3 introduces Custom Actions which allow MindMeld developers to further separate their business logic from the conversational application."

Basically, it will combine the two sentences together.

> logic from the conversational application. This paradigm shift helps to reduce the barriers to build and

Reviewer: I dont think we need to mention this as a paradigm shift.

Reviewer: Same, I dont think paradigm shift is needed here.

Author: Done

deploy conversational applications.

Why Custom Actions?
-------------------

Suppose that a team is working to build a MindMeld application and integrate it the rest of their microservices.

> However, since the rest of the microservices are written in Java, the developers want to reuse as much logic as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the microservices are written in Java, the developers want to reuse as much logic as
```

> possible. Since the MindMeld application is in Python, it will be a steep curve to reimplement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
possible. Since the MindMeld application is in Python, they would have to re-implement their Java code to Python code.
```

> With Custom Actions, the developers can now shift the responsibility of fulfilling business logic to services that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Custom Actions, the developers can now shift the responsibility of fulfilling dialogue management logic to services that
```

> are outside of MindMeld applications, and these services can be implemented in any language that the developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are outside of MindMeld applications, and these services can be implemented in any language.
```

> desire. The developers can specify the exact conditions (for example, matching a certain domain or intent) to execute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The developers can specify the exact conditions (for example, matching a certain domain or intent) to execute
```

> the custom actions and the MindMeld application will interact with the custom action servers through http requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the custom actions and the MindMeld application will interact with the custom action servers through http(s) requests.
```

OpenAPI Specification for client-server interaction
---------------------------------------------------

Our client – server protocol is documented `here <https://github.com/cisco/mindmeld/blob/master/mindmeld/openapi/custom_action.yaml>`_.
For easy viewing you can check out Swagger UI, which can also help to render OpenAPI protocol into client and server
stubs in a variety of languages.

> In a broad view, each request to the Custom Action Server includes two fields: ``request`` and ``responder``. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each request to the Custom Action Server includes two fields: ``request`` and ``responder``. The
```

> ``request`` field encapsulates information from the ``Request`` object (text, NLP information, etc.) and the

Reviewer: Provide links to the request and responder objects.

.. code-block:: python

    @app.handle(intent='some_intent')
    def handle_intent(request, responder):
        # normal MindMeld application logic goes here

In an analogous process, when we invoke the custom action, we are serializing the ``request`` and ``responder`` and
passing them into the body of the http request to the server. In the response, we simply expect it to contain all
the fields of the `Responder` object which will be deserialized and processed before returning to the end client.

Configure Custom Actions for your MindMeld application
------------------------------------------------------

You can specify custom action configuration in ``config.py`` with the ``url`` field:

.. code-block:: python

    CUSTOM_ACTION_CONFIG = {"url": "http://0.0.0.0:8080/"}

Currently MindMeld also supports SSL encryption by specifying the following fields in
the ``CUSTOM_ACTION_CONFIG``: ``cert``, ``public_key`` and ``private_key``. Each field
is the path to the local location of the certificate, public and private key.

A Simple Custom Action Server
-----------------------------

> To understand the behavior of Custom Actions, let's take a look at example of a Custom

Reviewer: More context has to be provided on how to create this Server application. For example, we mention importing these libs `from ..models.data import Data` but this assumes a certain dir structure which the developer doesnt know about.

Action Server. Suppose that we have implemented the following server and it is running
locally at address http://0.0.0.0:8080/.

.. code-block:: python

>     import connexion

Reviewer: Did we add `connexion` to the requirements.txt list?

Author: I added connexion to the optional dependency here.
https://github.com/cisco/mindmeld/pulls

>     from ..models.data import Data  # noqa: E501

Reviewer: We can remove these linting comments from example code blocks.

Author: These are autogenerated by swagger.

    from ..models.responder import Responder  # noqa: E501
    from ..models.directive import Directive

    def invoke_action(data):  # noqa: E501
        """Invoke an action

         # noqa: E501

        :param data: MindMeld Data
        :type data: dict | bytes

        :rtype: Responder
        """
        if connexion.request.is_json:
            data = Data.from_dict(connexion.request.get_json())  # noqa: E501

        action = data.action
        msg = 'Invoking {action} on custom server.'.format(action=data.action)

        reply = Directive(name='reply', payload={'text': msg}, type='view')
        responder = Responder(directives=[reply], frame={}),
        return responder

The template for the above example is auto-generated by Swagger from our OpenAPI protocol.
In this example, the server simply returns a reply directive for each action request.

Using Custom Actions with MindMeld applications
-----------------------------------------------

> Adding a call to a custom action is simple and straight-forward:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a call to a custom action as follows:
```

If you want to execute a sequence of custom actions, you can pass the list of actions into
the ``actions`` field.

.. code-block:: python

    app.custom_action(intent='ask_help', actions=['action_help', 'action_restart'])

In our response, we should see two replies: ``Invoking action_help on custom server``,
``Invoking action_restart on custom server``.

The default behavior for executing a sequence of custom actions is to merge all of their fields in the final
``responder``. If we set the ``merge`` flag to be ``False``, we will only keep the result of the last action.

.. code-block:: python

    app.custom_action(intent='ask_help', actions=['action_help', 'action_restart'], merge=False)

Here, in the final response, we will see only one reply: "Invoking action_restart on custom server".

Calling Individual Custom Actions inside a MindMeld application
---------------------------------------------------------------

You can invoke individual custom actions by calling the ``CustomAction`` object directly.

.. code-block:: python

    @app.handle(intent='restart')
    def action_check_out(request, responder):

>         from mindmeld.component import CustomAction

Reviewer: Better to add this above the code block.

>         from mindmeld.component import CustomAction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        from mindmeld.components import CustomAction
```

Author: Done

.. code-block:: python

    @app.handle(intent='restart')
    async def action_check_out(request, responder):
        await CustomAction(name='action_restart', config=action_config).invoke(request, responder, async_mode=True)

We can pipe multiple custom actions easily in a sequence and mix this sequence with any operation
by the ``responder``.

.. code-block:: python

    @app.handle(intent='ask_help')
    def handle_ask_help(request, responder):
        responder.reply('I can help you')
        CustomAction(name='action_help', config=action_config).invoke(request, responder)
        CustomAction(name='action_restart', config=action_config).invoke(request, responder)

In the example above, first we choose to add a reply first, and then invoke two custom actions in sequence.

In the final result, we should see three replies: ``I can help you``, ``Invoking action_help on custom server``,
``Invoking action_restart on custom server``.

Instead of calling individual ``CustomAction`` in sequence, you can also use the ``CustomActionSequence`` class.

.. code-block:: python

    @app.handle(intent='ask_help')
    def handle_ask_help(request, responder):

>         from mindmeld.component import CustomActionSequence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        from mindmeld.components import CustomActionSequence
```

Author: Done

        responder.reply('I can help you')
        CustomActionSequence(actions=['action_help', 'action_restart'], config=action_config).invoke(request, responder)

For your convenience, we also provide helper functions (``invoke_custom_action``, ``invoke_action_async``) which wrap
around the ``CustomAction`` class.

.. code-block:: python

    @app.handle(intent='restart')
    def action_check_out(request, responder):

>         from mindmeld.component import invoke_custom_action

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        from mindmeld.components import invoke_custom_action
```
